doc: split up SubmittingPatches.rst (#30705)
ceph/ceph: SubmittingPatches.rst

Submitting Patches to Ceph
==========================

Patches to Ceph can be divided into three categories:

    1. patches targeting Ceph kernel code
    2. patches targeting the "master" branch
    3. patches targeting stable branches (e.g.: "nautilus")

Some parts of Ceph - notably the RBD and CephFS kernel clients - are maintained
within the Linux Kernel. For patches targeting this code, please refer to the
file ``SubmittingPatches-kernel.rst``.

The rest of this document assumes that your patch relates to Ceph code that is
maintained in the GitHub repository https://github.com/ceph/ceph

If you have a patch that fixes an issue, feel free to open a GitHub pull request
("PR") targeting the "master" branch, but do read this document first, as it
contains important information for ensuring that your PR passes code review
smoothly.

For patches targeting stable branches (e.g. "nautilus"), please also see
the file ``SubmittingPatches-backports.rst``.

.. contents::
   :depth: 3

> Sign your work

Reviewer: Perhaps you'd like to suggest/indicate what needs to go in the headers of new files if one creates them... I usually just borrow some content of a file next to it in the directory. 
But that is not always fitting.
I'm thinking that there should be something there in the lines that the file falls under the same copyright as the project.
Also what to do with the original author. Because I'm borrowing, most of the attribution goes to Dreamhost or RedHat.

separate those into two patches.

On the other hand, if you make a single change that affects numerous
files, group those changes into a single commit. Thus a single logical change is
contained within a single patch.

Title of commit
---------------

The text up to the first empty line in a commit message is the commit
title. It should be a single short line of at most 72 characters,
summarizing the change, and prefixed with the
subsystem or module you are changing. For example::

     mds: add perf counter for finisher of MDSRank

More examples can be obtained from the git history of the master branch::

     git log

It is also conventional to use the imperative mood in the commit title. For
example::

     osd: make the ClassHandler::mutex private

PR best practices
-----------------

PRs should be opened on branches contained in your fork of
https://github.com/ceph/ceph.git - do not push branches directly to
``ceph/ceph.git``.

PRs should target "master". If you need to add a patch to a stable branch, such
as "nautilus", see the file ``SubmittingPatches-backports.rst``.

The `Title of commit`_ explains that commit message

> titles should look like this::

Reviewer 2: Okay but how should they title the PR? What if they have multiple commits? Then the PR title is usually empty (IIRC) when github opens the PR creation page. We should suggest using the title from the most relevant commit. It is also okay to come up with a completely new title as long as it conforms to the commit title conventions.

Reviewer 2: We should also address what the PR body should include. I generally don't spend too much effort on the PR body as most information should be in the commit messages instead. PR body should mostly be used as a center for information about the PR and notices to the maintainers?

Reviewer 3: agreed. i think PR body is a place for sending messages to reviewer and whoever are interested to the PR. in some cases, we use it as a notepad to 

- document the todo list.
- the performed tests , the test not yet performed.
- the performance benchmarks 
- links for further reading / related PRs

i don't want to codify it. just like the title of an article, the title of a PR should enable its reader to make a decision right away if he/she should take a closer look with a glimpse .

    Backport: mimic, nautilus

For information on how backports are done in the Ceph project, refer to the
document "SubmittingChanges-backports.rst".

.. _`fixes line`:

Fixes line(s)
-------------

If the commit fixes one or more issues tracked by http://tracker.ceph.com,
add a ``Fixes:`` line (or lines) to the commit message, to connect this change
to addressed issue(s) - for example::

     Fixes: http://tracker.ceph.com/issues/12345

This line should be added just before the ``Signed-off-by:`` line (see `Sign
your work`_).

It helps the reviewer to get more context of this bug, so she/he can hence
update the issue on the bug tracker accordingly.

So a typical commit message for revising the document could look like::

     doc: add "--foo" option to bar

     * update the man page for bar with the newly added "--foo" option.
     * fix a typo

     Fixes: http://tracker.ceph.com/issues/12345
     Signed-off-by: Random J Developer <random@developer.example.org>

If a commit fixes a regression introduced by a different commit, please
add a line referencing the SHA1 of the commit that introduced the regression.
For example::

>      Fixes: 9dbe7a003989f8bb45fe14aaa587e9d60a392727

Reviewer 4: I don't we have ever practised this, at least not in the main repo.  Not saying that this is a bad idea, just that it doesn't codify existing practice and should be discussed on the mailing list first for it to get any traction.  Because everyone is doing their own thing: I noticed @batrick has been using Introduced-by, I usually put an abbreviated SHA1 along with the title somewhere in the commit message, etc.

Reviewer 5: We recently started making a point of mentioning the commit that introduced the problem to help identify follow-on fixes to backport, but I don't think we standardized on the Prefix: that precedes it.  Fixes: seems appropriate though?  In any case, this is a good time to go ahead codify this!

Author: @idryomov This format was suggested by Sage quite some months (or even a year or more) ago.

Reviewer 6: I'm down with this format.

Reviewer 2: +1

.. _`commit message`:

Writing commit messages
-----------------------

(This section is about the body of the commit message. Please also see
the `Title of commit`_ section for advice on titling commit messages.)

In the body of your commit message, be as specific as possible. The WORST
descriptions possible include things like "update component X", "bug fix for
component X", or "this patch includes updates for subsystem X.  Please apply."

There's nothing inherently wrong with a long commit message body. But it might

> be a sign that the patch could benefit from being split up into smaller patches.

Reviewer 2: I think we want to encourage long explanatory commit messages and this paragraph seems to discourage it. A long commit message may include error output (from teuthology) or other useful information to give background for the patch.

Let's instead emphasize, again, that a commit and its message should be focused around a particular change and if they have a series of bulleted modifications, those would be better split into multiple commits.

Reviewer 3: i love explanatory commit message, and i love short commit messages as long as they are well written and they explain the whole story.

sometimes, i just don't have time to make it short.

See the `Separate your changes`_ section.

When you open a GitHub PR with multiple patches, the patches should all be
related in some way and the PR title should state briefly what the patches do

> and why they are needed. In other words, the patch series and its description

Reviewer 3: i don't think the title should state the "why" part. the body of a commit message should.

should be self-contained. This benefits both the patch merger(s) and reviewers.

Test your changes
-----------------

> Before you open your PR, it's a good idea to run tests on your patchset. Doing

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Before opening your PR, it's a good idea to run tests on your patchset. Doing
```

own development environment. The commands for this are::

    ./install-deps.sh
    ./do_cmake.sh
    make

Ceph comes with a battery of tests that can be run on a single machine. These
are collectively referred to as "make check", and can be run by executing the
following command::

    ./run-make-check.sh

If your patchset does not build, or if one or more of the "make check" tests
fails, but the error shown is not obviously related to your patchset, don't let
that dissuade you from opening a PR. The Ceph project has a Jenkins instance
which will build your PR branch and run "make check" on it in a controlled
environment.

Once your patchset builds and passes "make check", you can run even more tests
on it by issuing the following commands::

    cd build
    ../qa/run-standalone.sh

Like "make check", the standalone tests take a long time to run. They also
produce voluminous output. If one or more of the standalone tests fails, it's
likely the relevant part of the output will have scrolled off your screen or
gotten swapped out of your buffer. To capture the output for later analysis,
various tools, such as `script`_ (part of `util-linux`_ which is likely

> already installed on your machine), are available.

Reviewer 3: i don't think we should include this in our document. yes, it's helpful. but it's orthogonal to Ceph development in the sense that it's not closely connected to Ceph or is not specific to Ceph. if we have this hint in this document, shall we include some links to useful Emacs packages or awesome VIM plugins? probably a link to Visual Studio Code as well?

the title GitHub suggest. Either use the title of the most relevant commit, or
write your own title. In the latter case, use the same "subsystem: short
description" convention described in `Commit title`_ for the PR title, with
the following difference: the PR title describes the entire set of changes,
while the `Commit title`_ describes only the changes in a particular commit. 

Keep in mind that the PR titles feed directly into the script that generates
release notes and it is tedious to clean up non-conformant PR titles at release
time. This document places no limit on the length of PR titles, but be aware
that they are subject to editing as part of the release process.

PR description
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In addition to a title, the PR also has a description field, or "body". 

The PR description is a place for summarizing the PR as a whole. It need not
duplicate information that is already in the commit messages. It can contain
notices to maintainers, links to tracker issues and other related information,
to-do lists, etc. The PR title and description should give the reader a
high-level notion of what the PR is about, quickly enabling her to decide

> whether she should take a closer look.

Reviewer 7: I suggest replacing "her" with the more neutral singular "they".

     mds: add perf counter for finisher of MDSRank

More examples can be obtained from the git history of the master branch::

     git log

It is also conventional to use the imperative mood in the commit title. For
example::

     osd: make the ClassHandler::mutex private

.. _pr_best_practices:

PR best practices
-----------------

PRs should be opened on branches contained in your fork of
https://github.com/ceph/ceph.git - do not push branches directly to
``ceph/ceph.git``.

PRs should target "master". If you need to add a patch to a stable branch, such
as "nautilus", see the file "SubmittingPatches-backports.rst".

The section :ref:`_title_of_commit` explains that commit message
titles should look like this::

    subsystem: short description

Use this "subsystem: short description" convention not just for the individual
commit titles, but also for the title of the PR itself. (The PR titles feed
directly into the script that generates release notes and it is tedious to clean
up non-conformant PR titles at release time.  This document places no limit on
the length of PR titles, but be aware that they are subject to editing as part
of the release process.)

>  you believe your changes should be backported to stable branches after the PR

Reviewer 5: missing "If" ?
